---
title: Docker
description: Configure Docker Desktop and Docker Engine to run containerized versions of Ignition.
author: Fran_Dujmovic
date: 2024-11-17 11:38:00 +0200
pin: true
categories: [Ignition Docker Setup, Docker]
---
Download and install **Docker Desktop** from the official download link:

- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-started/get-docker/)

If asked, select '*Install required Windows components for WSL2*'. After the installation was successful, create an account using your work email and log in. To make sure Docker Desktop is successfully installed, use the following command:

```
docker --version
```

Currently the latest stable version is `27.3.1` .

Installing Docker Desktop includes the **Docker Engine**, which provides the container runtime required to run backend services. This setup enables **VS Code** to connect to Docker through its built-in extensions and APIs.

Docker Engine provides isolated environments for development, ensuring that dependencies and configurations do not conflict across projects, which can be conveniently managed through Visual Studio Code's Docker extension.

Docker Engine **must be running** in order to create and manage containers, images, registries and volumes through VS Code integration.

## Docker Ignition Image

After both Docker Desktop and Docker Engine are configured and running, you can pull the official **Docker Ignition Image** by entering the following command(s) in your VS Code terminal:

```
docker pull inductiveautomation/ignition
```

After the image has been pulled into the VS Code Docker extension directory you can run the following command to run a detached daemon container from VS Code:

```
docker run -dp 9088:8088 inductiveautomation/ignition
```

Here's a breakdown of what each component does in the command above:

- `docker run` - This command tells Docker to create and start a container from the specified image
- `-d` - Stands for "detached mode". The container runs in the background without typing up the terminal.
- `-p 9088:8088` - Maps a port on the host machine `9088` to a port inside the container `8088`.
- `inductiveautomation/ignition` - Specifies the Docker image to use.

After running this command, Docker should create a container which you can access via the URL:

```
http://localhost:9088
```

For defining and running multi-container Docker applications, as well as configuring services, networks and volumes, **Docker Compose** is used.

## Docker Compose

In order to store the container configuration and data you will need to create a **Docker Volume** using Docker Compose, which was installed alongside Docker Desktop and Docker Engine.

Start by creating a file called `docker-compose.yml` in VS Code in a separate project directory:

```
services:

  ignition:

    image: inductiveautomation/ignition:latest

    container_name: ignition_gateway

    ports:

      - "9089:8088"

      - "9043:8043"

    command: >

      -n fran-dujmovic

      -m 2048

    volumes:

      - ignition_data:/var/lib/ignition

volumes:

  ignition_data:
```


The code shown above is the format in which Docker Compose must be used. The container was named `ignition_gateway` for ease of access. The following changes to the gateway were also made;

- Gateway name was changed to `fran-dujmovic`
- The gateway memory was updated to `2Gbps` 
